README.md, before:

## Notice

Btw. this is fully made with AI as kind of an experiment. just want to see what ai can do with a bit of help

# Vash Reader

A local Electron-based manga reader that aggregates content from various sources with a beautiful home page and reading progress tracking.

## ✨ Features

### 🏠 **Home Page**
- **Last Read** - Horizontal scrolling list of recently read manga with navigation arrows
- **Popular** - Trending manga from Comick.dev API with navigation
- **Recent Updates** - Latest chapter updates across all sources
- **Clickable title** - Click "Vash Reader" to return to home page anytime

### 📚 **Reading Experience**
- **Multi-source search** - MangaDx, Mangakakalot, Manganato
- **Advanced search** - Filter by genre, type, demographics, status, year, and more using Comick API
- **Chapter browsing** - View all available chapters
- **Page reader** - Clean reading interface with navigation
- **Smart back navigation** - Back button in reader remembers your path (search → details → chapters → reader)
- **Progress tracking** - Automatically saves reading progress
- **Keyboard shortcuts** - Arrow keys for navigation, Escape to go back

### 💾 **Data Management**
- **Reading history** - Tracks last read manga and chapters
- **Progress sync** - Remembers where you left off
- **Local storage** - All data stored locally for privacy
- **Cover images** - Displays manga cover art throughout the app

## 🚀 Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```

2. **Run the app:**
```bash
npm start
```

3. **Development mode:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

## 📦 Building Executable

### **Create Portable Executable**

To create a single portable .exe file that users can run without installing anything:

```bash
# Build for Windows (creates single .exe file)
npm run build-win

# Build for macOS
npm run build-mac

# Build for Linux
npm run build-linux

# Build for all platforms
npm run build
```

**Note:** On Windows, you may need to run the build command as Administrator to avoid permission issues with symbolic links.

### **Alternative: Electron Packager**

For a folder-based distribution:

```bash
# Create packaged app (folder with .exe and dependencies)
npm run pack-win
```

### **Output Files**

- **Portable executable**: `dist/Vash Reader 1.0.0.exe` - Single file, ready to distribute
- **Packaged app**: `dist/Vash Reader-win32-x64/` - Folder with executable and resources

### **Distribution**

The portable executable (`Vash Reader 1.0.0.exe`) is completely self-contained:
- ✅ No installation required
- ✅ No dependencies needed
- ✅ Works on Windows 7+ (64-bit)
- ✅ User data stored in `%APPDATA%/vash-reader/`

## 🏗️ Architecture

### **Kotatsu-Inspired Parser System**
```
├── src/
│   ├── main.js              # Electron main process
│   ├── preload.js           # IPC bridge
│   ├── scraper.js           # Main scraper coordinator
│   ├── storage.js           # Local data management
│   ├── parsers/
│   │   ├── base-parser.js       # Abstract base class
│   │   ├── mangadex-parser.js   # MangaDex API integration
│   │   ├── mangakakalot-parser.js # HTML scraper
│   │   ├── manganato-parser.js   # HTML scraper
│   │   ├── comick-parser.js      # Comick.dev API for popular/recent
│   │   └── parser-manager.js     # Manages all parsers
│   └── renderer/
│       ├── index.html       # Main UI with home page
│       ├── styles.css       # Beautiful dark theme
│       └── renderer.js      # Frontend logic with home page
├── package.json
├── test-parsers.js          # Test script
└── README.md
```

## 🔧 Adding New Sources

Just like Kotatsu, adding new manga sources is simple:

1. **Create parser** - Extend `BaseParser` class
2. **Implement methods** - `search()`, `getChapters()`, `getPages()`
3. **Add to manager** - Include in `parser-manager.js`

```javascript
class NewSiteParser extends BaseParser {
    constructor() {
        super('NewSite', 'https://newsite.com');
    }
    
    async search(query) { /* implementation */ }
    async getChapters(mangaUrl) { /* implementation */ }
    async getPages(chapterUrl) { /* implementation */ }
}
```

## 🎯 Data Sources

- **MangaDex** - API-based, high quality
- **Mangakakalot** - HTML scraping, large library
- **Manganato** - HTML scraping, frequent updates
- **Comick.dev** - Popular manga and recent updates

## 📱 Usage

1. **Home Page** - Browse popular, recent, and continue reading
2. **Search** - Find manga across all sources
3. **Advanced Search** - Click "🔍 Advanced" for detailed filtering:
   - **Genres** - Include/exclude specific genres
   - **Demographics** - Shounen, Shoujo, Seinen, Josei
   - **Type** - Manga, Manhwa, Manhua
   - **Status** - Ongoing, Completed, Cancelled, Hiatus
   - **Content Rating** - Safe, Suggestive, Erotica
   - **Year Range** - Filter by publication year
   - **Country** - Japan, Korea, China
   - **Sort Options** - Rating, popularity, newest, etc.
4. **Read** - Automatic progress tracking and history
5. **Navigate** - Use arrows, keyboard, or click to navigate

## 🔒 Privacy

- All data stored locally
- No external accounts required
- Optional Comick.dev integration for enhanced features
- Respects website rate limits and terms of service

## ⚖️ Legal

This app is for personal use only. Please respect:
- Website terms of service
- Copyright laws in your jurisdiction
- Rate limiting and fair usage
- Support official manga sources when possible

Commit message:

history change and navigation bar

README.md, after:

## Notice

Btw. this is fully made with AI as kind of an experiment. just want to see what ai can do with a bit of help

# Vash Reader

A local Electron-based manga reader that aggregates content from various sources with a beautiful home page and reading progress tracking.

## ✨ Features

### 🏠 **Home Page**
- **Last Read** - Horizontal scrolling list of recently read manga with navigation arrows
- **Popular** - Trending manga from Comick.dev API with navigation
- **Recent Updates** - Latest chapter updates across all sources
- **Clickable title** - Click "Vash Reader" to return to home page anytime

### 📚 **Reading Experience**
- **Multi-source search** - MangaDx, Mangakakalot, Manganato
- **Advanced search** - Filter by genre, type, demographics, status, year, and more using Comick API
- **Chapter browsing** - View all available chapters
- **Page reader** - Clean reading interface with navigation
- **Smart navigation menu** - Auto-hiding slide-out menu with chapter dropdown, only visible when header is scrolled out of view
- **Smart back navigation** - Back button in reader remembers your path (search → details → chapters → reader)
- **Enhanced progress tracking** - Remembers exact page and scroll position within chapters
- **Smart continue buttons** - Shows "Continue Ch. X" or "Next Ch. X" based on completion status
- **Resume at exact position** - Returns to the exact page and scroll position where you left off
- **Chapter completion detection** - Automatically detects when you finish a chapter (90% scrolled on last page)
- **Visual progress indicators** - Shows completion and resume notifications
- **Keyboard shortcuts** - Arrow keys for navigation, Escape to go back

### 💾 **Data Management**
- **Reading history** - Tracks last read manga and chapters
- **Progress sync** - Remembers where you left off
- **Local storage** - All data stored locally for privacy
- **Cover images** - Displays manga cover art throughout the app

## 🚀 Setup

1. **Install dependencies:**
```bash
npm install
```

2. **Run the app:**
```bash
npm start
```

3. **Development mode:**
```bash
npm run dev
```

## 📦 Building Executable

### **Create Portable Executable**

To create a single portable .exe file that users can run without installing anything:

```bash
# Build for Windows (creates single .exe file)
npm run build-win

# Build for macOS
npm run build-mac

# Build for Linux
npm run build-linux

# Build for all platforms
npm run build
```

**Note:** On Windows, you may need to run the build command as Administrator to avoid permission issues with symbolic links.

### **Alternative: Electron Packager**

For a folder-based distribution:

```bash
# Create packaged app (folder with .exe and dependencies)
npm run pack-win
```

### **Output Files**

- **Portable executable**: `dist/Vash Reader 1.0.0.exe` - Single file, ready to distribute
- **Packaged app**: `dist/Vash Reader-win32-x64/` - Folder with executable and resources

### **Distribution**

The portable executable (`Vash Reader 1.0.0.exe`) is completely self-contained:
- ✅ No installation required
- ✅ No dependencies needed
- ✅ Works on Windows 7+ (64-bit)
- ✅ User data stored in `%APPDATA%/vash-reader/`

## 🏗️ Architecture

### **Kotatsu-Inspired Parser System**
```
├── src/
│   ├── main.js              # Electron main process
│   ├── preload.js           # IPC bridge
│   ├── scraper.js           # Main scraper coordinator
│   ├── storage.js           # Local data management
│   ├── parsers/
│   │   ├── base-parser.js       # Abstract base class
│   │   ├── mangadex-parser.js   # MangaDex API integration
│   │   ├── mangakakalot-parser.js # HTML scraper
│   │   ├── manganato-parser.js   # HTML scraper
│   │   ├── comick-parser.js      # Comick.dev API for popular/recent
│   │   └── parser-manager.js     # Manages all parsers
│   └── renderer/
│       ├── index.html       # Main UI with home page
│       ├── styles.css       # Beautiful dark theme
│       └── renderer.js      # Frontend logic with home page
├── package.json
├── test-parsers.js          # Test script
└── README.md
```

## 🔧 Adding New Sources

Just like Kotatsu, adding new manga sources is simple:

1. **Create parser** - Extend `BaseParser` class
2. **Implement methods** - `search()`, `getChapters()`, `getPages()`
3. **Add to manager** - Include in `parser-manager.js`

```javascript
class NewSiteParser extends BaseParser {
    constructor() {
        super('NewSite', 'https://newsite.com');
    }
    
    async search(query) { /* implementation */ }
    async getChapters(mangaUrl) { /* implementation */ }
    async getPages(chapterUrl) { /* implementation */ }
}
```

## 🎯 Data Sources

- **MangaDex** - API-based, high quality
- **Mangakakalot** - HTML scraping, large library
- **Manganato** - HTML scraping, frequent updates
- **Comick.dev** - Popular manga and recent updates

## 📱 Usage

1. **Home Page** - Browse popular, recent, and continue reading
2. **Search** - Find manga across all sources
3. **Advanced Search** - Click "🔍 Advanced" for detailed filtering:
   - **Genres** - Include/exclude specific genres
   - **Demographics** - Shounen, Shoujo, Seinen, Josei
   - **Type** - Manga, Manhwa, Manhua
   - **Status** - Ongoing, Completed, Cancelled, Hiatus
   - **Content Rating** - Safe, Suggestive, Erotica
   - **Year Range** - Filter by publication year
   - **Country** - Japan, Korea, China
   - **Sort Options** - Rating, popularity, newest, etc.
4. **Read** - Automatic progress tracking and history
5. **Navigate** - Use arrows, keyboard, or click to navigate

## 🔒 Privacy

- All data stored locally
- No external accounts required
- Optional Comick.dev integration for enhanced features
- Respects website rate limits and terms of service

## ⚖️ Legal

This app is for personal use only. Please respect:
- Website terms of service
- Copyright laws in your jurisdiction
- Rate limiting and fair usage
- Support official manga sources when possible
